In the late 80s and the early 90s, … we
used to get a very famous daily comic strip
called Calvin and Hobbes.
We used to think it was for children, but
actually it was heavy.
Philosophical.
Profound.
Calvin was the little boy..
And Hobbes was the … stuffed tiger (pssst…!
The tiger will get angry if it hears this!)
See what’s happening in this strip!
Calvin is waiting for inspiration.
He has to finish a big project..
“Haven’t you started it yet?
You are still playing!” asks Hobbes.
Calvin says, “Hey, no, I am waiting for
inspiration.
You can’t just turn on creativity like a
faucet!
You have to be in the right mood!”
And Hobbes persists..
He wants to know what MOOD Calvin is referring
to.
And Calvin replies, “Last Minute Panic!”
Many times, we interact with children, we
interact with teammates, and looks like there
are quite a lot of similarities between them
both.
That’s what we are going to look at today!
Namaste!
Four hundred and twenty four!
We have called it “Siruvar Merppaarvai”..
Managing Kids.
But, looks like there is a beautiful lesson
waiting for us right there!
The thing is, I came across three different
books.
The first one was titled, … a very long
one…
“How To Talk So Kids Will Listen And Listen
So Kids Will Talk!”
How to talk, and how to listen when they are
talking!
And then, I saw two other books.
One by a software engineer, techie turned
into a Software Project Manager..
Titled “Leading Snowflakes”.
The other, by a lady who was a techie, who
turned into a Project Manager.
Titled “Glue”.
Do you get the double meaning loaded in “Leading
Snowflakes”?
Leading snowflakes…
Also, snowflakes that are leading..
By the way, why have they used the word “Snowflakes”?
Well, each is unique!
Each has a perfect shape, but, like no other.
That is why, they have called it “Leading
Snowflakes”.
So, when I saw these three books together,
I realised, probably, there are quite a few
lessons that one can get from the first book,
and see probably an analogy, a mirror image,
in the next two books.
I will give you some examples.
The first advice with respect to children
is, “Acknowledge, Accept, and if possible,
Address!”
Is there a problem?
Acknowledge that there is a problem first.
Accept that the problem may never ever go
away.
And then, after that, think about how to fix
the problem…
A kid’s lunchbox.
Looks so attractive.
Alluring.
Such an amazing lunch!
Fruit.
Corn.
Golden-toasted bread.
Nuts.
The child kept crying.
Only much later, after sitting with the child
for a considerable amount of time, after observing
how the child went about eating from the lunchbox,
only then we realised that they haven’t
kept the right number of pistas..
I will eat one almond, followed by two pistas.
Followed again by one almond and again two
pistas.
Silly??
But, that’s such an emotional moment for
the child.
Exactly the same way, I have observed the
snowflake-quality in some of my colleagues.
I have a friend..
A colleague.
I don’t want to mention his name, obviously.
Anytime you see him, he will be wearing headphones.
Morning, first thing in the day, Monday morning,
when he is “supposed to be at work”, he
will be engrossed in something, with his headphones
on.
He is a die-hard Ilaiyaraja fan too, and unfortunately,
I knew that!
So, I used to, … in the deep dark corner
of my mind, I used to feel bad.
He is such a senior person, he is setting
a bad example.
Why can’t he focus a bit more, why can’t
he really do meaningful work, … Why does
he need that blasted music?
Is it really that important?
Monday morning!
But, one day, he had just kept his headphones
off and had stepped out.. and wanting to know
what exactly was the ‘blasted music’ he
was listening to, I check his open applications,
hang the headphones over my ears to hear what
music is streaming, … utter silence!
Pin drop silence!
That’s when I learned that he was actually
shutting out the noise from around him!
He wasn’t playing music, he was trying to
get calm!
Idiosyncrasies, they call it.
Each person has his / her own red button.
Some hot button.
That ticks them off.
Acknowledge.
Accept.
Try to address.
Here is another example.
The first thing you are supposed to do to
a child is to verbalise to it what the perceived
problem is.
Verbalise!
“Why did you spill the food all over?
Will you ever do it again?”
One can shout at it.
The noodles is splattered all over the place!
Would you do that, or would you take the approach
of the smart mom who says, … “I have to
spend a lot of time cleaning all this.
You have made a mess of the whole thing.
It has spilled all over the floor.
There are going to be ants, if I don’t clean
up after you..!”
Verbalise!
Probably the child doesn’t understand.
Probably, if the child understood, the child
might empathise.
That same thing..
That disconnected, disengaged employee..
You are talking to her.
But, she is just wondering idly when you would
leave her alone, when she can get back to
her joblessness…
Would you just continue prating?
Or, would you take the effort to convey what
would happen if she continues like this!?
What would happen to her, what would happen
to you, what would happen to the team, to
the company, … Verbalise!
For both of them.
For the child.
And for your colleagues.
How about this one.
Listen till the end!
The best thing you can give to a child, they
say, is TIME!
That TIME!
When the child is recounting to you, “Guess
what happened…?”
Can you listen till the end?
Without crushing that enthusiasm into pieces..
Probably the child is telling about a horror
story that happened at school.
Or..
Probably the child is telling about a running
race she came FOURTH in..
But, can you give them the time?
Without puncturing their enthusiasm, can you
help improve the situation?
It is the same thing in an employee-employer
relationship too..
A team manager, coming for a review is already
running late for the next meeting..
But, that guy, who has come up with that amazing
idea.. wants to tell you about the greatest
thing he has invented.. and he takes you to
a side, and shows you some beautiful flowcharts..
Observe keenly, look at that guy’s face..
The bespectacled person is explaining with
all gusto.
The other guy, the shaved-head.
Aren’t you able to almost hear him say,
“I wonder when you are going to stop this..
I have already decided this is a bad idea.
Can we just move on?”
But, at least he is attentively, seemingly
attentively, listening.
Listen till the end!
Okay, what about decision-making?
There is this kid..
When we try to force-feed him spinach, … The
kid feels, “No!
Because I feel I am being forced.
Just because I am small, just because I am
weak, just because I live in your house, just
because I am not earning my living, …? Will
you force-feed me?”
On the other hand, what do smart dads do?
What do smart moms do?
“Would you want tomato sauce or mayonnaise
with this?
Do you want to eat it in the morning, or in
the evening?
You decide!
Autonomy!
You are the decision-maker!
Do you want me to golden-fry it or do you
want me to just boil it?
You decide!”
Look at this woman.
She is a colleague.
And, why is she so happy?
You know what happened?
We gave her the option, “You can actually
work on Monday or Wednesday or Friday, from
home!”
She has been asked to come to office the rest
of the days!
We are creating a scenario, a perception,
that she is being given autonomy…!
Do you get me?
Catch my point?
Is it done yet?
Are we there yet?
— Is a question children always ask.
The converse is also true.
When will you come back home, my dear?
I was watching a “junk series” on Netflix,
titled “Never Have I Ever”! Devi is her
name.
Her mom is Indian-born, America-settled.
She is off to her friend’s place, and the
mom asks, out of a growing concern..
Of course she doesn’t like the question.
And, what does she say?
I don’t know when I will come back!
I am going for a party.
WAIT.
Let us look at the corporate scenario.
Meet my boss!
One thing he has never done is … Be it an
idea that we have proposed, or a prototype
that has been planned..
He has never put undue pressure on us with
a “When will it be ready!??”
He knows creativity doesn’t follow a timeline.
It happens in starts.
In bursts.
It happens in its own time.
But, he runs a business.
And he needs that big picture…
And, the thing that I learned from him?
For when I manage MY team?
It is the same thing that is talked about
in the Glue book!
For both of these, for the mom who is managing
Devi, and for managers like me who is managing
a team of people, the suggestion is just this.
Dig a little deeper.
So, the typical answer to both questions,
“When will it be ready?”
and “When will you come back?” is “I
don’t know!”
And so, the mother, or the project manager,
is supposed to very respectfully ask, “When
will you know…
When will you know when you will be able to
come back home!?”
“When will you know enough for you to give
me an estimate of this project’s timeline?!”
Simple, so effective.
We have talked about appreciation.
If there is a child involved, there is a performance
involved.
And, if there is a performance involved, there
has to be an appreciation involved!
If the child wins, we appreciate…
But, if it loses?
Well, not so much!
Remember the mindset lady?
Carol Dweck?
She asks us to appreciate the process, and
not the outcome.
Did you put in a great effort?
Let me appreciate that!
Did you win something?
Okay, good, the process was good.
That is why you won!
And, how should we appreciate the wins?
NOT “Smart boy!”
But, “Great effort!”
Appreciate the effort.
That’s what Steve Jobs did too.
He didn’t appreciate only the people who
delivered those amazing products that were
great successes..
And, he didn’t ignore the people who delivered
duds like this one!
This is called the Sunflower Mac.
Have you even seen it?
Probably not.
For, it is SUCH A BOMB.
It just vanished without a trace.
But, it was supposed to be fashioned over
a sunflower.
You can swivel it in any direction.
Who designed it?
Jony Ive.
The same great designer who designed the iPhone,
the iPad, and who had a big role to play in
the Apple Watch.
He was the guy who invented the Mac, designed
the looks.
Even when Jony designed this contraption,
Steve Jobs fell in love with the design, appreciated
the design.
Effort.
Much more important than the outcome.
For the kids, as well as for Mr. Jony Ive.
If a thing ended happily, we reward usually.
What reward?
If you get the first rank at school, I will
take you to watch a movie, …? That is a
cheap reward.
Guess what my dad did?
He introduced me to this book..!
He asked me to read the book start to end,
… he promised me gifts if I answered his
questions correctly!
And, I did just that..
Pored through the pages.
Five hundred questions.
Questions about the stars, the animals, air,
water, earth…
After I finished the books?
What was the reward?
I remember doing it during the summer vacation.
He gave me the next book in the series!
More tell me why, lots more tell me why, still
more tell me why, big book of tell me why,
… This is what he did!
I didn’t realise it then, but now, I understand..
What he did was he took away extrinsic motivation
and brought out the intrinsic motivation from
inside me.
That’s what this guy Tom Sachs says.
He is a sculptor, he is an artist, he is a
designer who lives in New York.
This is what he says.
The reward for good work?
What do you think it is?
It is MORE WORK!
That is the reward, that is the right reward,
for good work.
In the nineties, there was a movie called
“Gentleman”.
In this movie, there is a specific scene…
A policeman is on the hunt, for our Arjun.
And, the policeman receives advice from his
Dad.
Listen!
…. So, that was Gentleman.
And, probably, this might come to mind to
you, when I tell you my closing thought.
Do you want to manage a team?
Do you want to manage it well?
Get married, get children!
Thank you!
Let us meet next week!